If you look at the software developer
life cycle, a lot of that is changing.
Developers are are are are are
developing software by developing specs
today. And so, if you're too much in the
weeds down there in that mechanics, and
you don't adapt for AIs or agents doing
that work, is
a software development life cycle,
deployments, rollbacks, monitoring,
observability, and all that. I think
that part will be very much disrupted.
Or if you're adding a sort of a UX on
things, that's another classic. You have
a very simple process, I don't know.
You're doing surveys or expense reports
or whatever.
And now people are going to start
expecting, you know, their personal
assistants or agents to kind of do all
that mechanic for them.
And so, I think that part is probably
something that has bigger question mark
on top. And so, I always ask myself for
the process question first, the process
transformation section question first,
and then consequently, what's the tool
that is going to support that. Just to
press on this point, though, have you
replaced any third-party software
providers with something that's been
developed internally through AI? We We
have We have terminated contracts
already. Yes, absolutely.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the All-In Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Alloway.
>> And I'm Joe [music] Weisenthal. Joe, the
thing about AI,
I feel like it's accelerated all of our
timelines, right? Like it's phenomenal
to me to think back that like back to
the days of Chat GPT. And when did that
come out? 2020?
>> 2022.
>> That's just crazy to think. It's really
unbelievable the gap. And I've been
thinking about this, like just A, the
explosion of capabilities.
>> Yeah. And the thing I've been thinking
about is that, you know, after the first
year or so when it came out, you know,
we talked to executives. And they're
like, "How are you using AI in your
workflow?" And they're like, "Well,
Well, everyone's experimenting. It's
great. Everyone is using Chat GPT, it's
always very vague. And now in 2026, the
story is that AI is so powerful that
it's going to destroy all these legacy
software companies. So, what I would say
is we must be past the age of
experimentation. I think that any
company using it better have some
example of like, here is a workflow
where we're using it. Well, exactly. And
to this point, now that we're past the
age of experimentation, I'm very curious
how executives and managers are actually
evaluating the return on investment in
AI and what they actually want to see
from it at this point. So, you know, are
you going to replace all your
third-party SaaS contractors with
internal coders? And what does that look
like from an actual headcount
perspective, from a cost-savings
perspective? We can actually get some
concrete details on this now. So, I'm
very excited to say we do in fact have
the perfect guest. Someone who we had on
before to talk generally about AI and
someone at a company that has been
doing, you know, they got into it pretty
fast. Um, the last time we spoke to this
person was in 2024 and even since then
Ages ago. I Yes, it just feels like
light-years in in AI time.
>> So, just one last thing on the last few
years of AI, which is that when chat GPT
used it when it when it came out, I
played around with it a lot, you know,
and I had it write poems and all this
stuff. And then I I bet if you actually
looked at my AI usage, it went through a
trough. Whereas like I wasn't really
getting any productivity, there was
nothing it really could do that I
needed. It still sort of seemed like a
toy. So, I had this like intense burst
of use for the first several months and
then this trough. And now these days
with the expansion of capabilities,
particularly Claude Coder, I'm finding
all kinds of new things. So, there is
like we're out coming out of the trough.
I think a lot of people are actually
finding things, at least if I can
generalize from my own experience. Yeah,
absolutely. So, we do in fact have the
perfect guest. We've brought back Marco
Argenti. He's of course the chief
information officer over at Goldman
Sachs, someone we had on the podcast
back in August of 2024. So, Marco, thank
you so much for coming back on. Thanks,
thank you for having me.
How much have things changed for you?
Does 2024 seem like 20 years ago now in
AI time? Yeah, I barely remember even
what what happened back then.
>> [laughter]
>> That's a nice way of saying you forgot
what we talked about on the podcast.
That's fine.
>> that. But literally like things are
really changing on a on a weekly basis
almost right now. And
if I look at the evolution not only
since a year ago, but even since 6
months ago,
I think it has been nothing short than
than revolutionary. A year ago we barely
talked about agents or the word almost
didn't exist.
Um
we were using AIs like a chat companion.
>> Yeah. There was a search function. Yeah,
it was telling you, oh, I'm sorry. I
don't know who's the president of the
United States because you know, my
cutoff date is like a year and a half
before or things of that nature.
Now you can say, hey, you know, as a as
a person you can say, hey, my plane
my plane just got canceled and it's
going to redo all your plans. It's going
to check for you know, like available
flights. It's going to do all these
capabilities of personal assistant and
and that translates in corporations also
in a lot of utility that you can see in
everyday's tasks. So, um
I would say, you know, what I like to
say
to you know, to my people but also in
general I say this is not a drill. This
is real. You know, it's not the age of
experimentation anymore. This is a tool
that now can do a lot for you.
And and so we put it at work and we put
it at work in you know, starting from
developers, but then expanding in many
many other areas.
So,
I I say actually if I look at the
increase of capabilities of these
models,
what we've seen in the last 6 months or
so with really the evolution of uh
uh this advanced reasoning capabilities
that came out.
I think uh that finally got us the
confidence that uh you can use uh
AIs for everyday's work with the right
supervision and also, you know, in many
cases for mission-critical applications.
Uh it's not a toy anymore. It's
something that uh you know, you can
expect results from. And I think that's
the biggest change. So today I would say
that
uh there is nobody that is not touched
by AI.
Uh you know, we gave our uh GSAI or GSA
assistant to 47,000 people.
Uh most of them use it every day. Um
mo- most of them use multiple times a
day.
And what's interesting is uh
it's like, you know, like the first time
you see a tool like, I don't know,
Microsoft Excel.
You can almost not predict what people
are going to do with that. Okay, maybe
it's born for uh
uh
you know, doing some form of accounting
and then people write entire
applications on top of that or use it
for project managers management or
things of that nature.
And AI is kind of turning uh
turning that way.
If I look at what people do with that,
it's it's it's it's really things that
surprises every day. Because uh Well,
why don't you give us some examples? So
in production right now, what are some
workflows or novel things that were not
workflows before that you see within
Goldman that AI is doing for people
today?
>> So let's start from uh uh
the GSA assistant.
>> Great.
That can answer really complex questions
based on external and internal data
that generally before used to take
sometimes hours or even days, sometimes
weeks to answer, okay? It can do very
complex research for you in topics uh
uh uh that are, you know, for example,
we can ask questions uh that come from
clients such as, "Hey, how does the
recent geopolitical events on the Hormuz
Strait actually uh uh impact this
portfolio? What could be a potential
rebalancing strategy?" Or you could ask
intersection of uh uh you know, like, I
don't know, how does uh a certain Fed
decision on interest rate actually
impact uh you know, the volatility of
certain assets. So, you ask these
multi-dimensional questions
and uh uh
what GSA Assistant does,
it calls out a model,
retrieves the relevant information,
creates a plan to answer that question.
And that's kind of the key because this
AIs, they really plan before responding
rather than just giving you the first
thing that comes to mind.
And so, that's what kind of at the very
surface things that one of the most you
know, common use cases, which is uh
we really in in in enhance the client
experience by being able to answer
questions internally and externally in a
much, much faster way. But really
complex questions, not simple questions.
We had to wire up uh
hundreds of data sources.
And also most importantly, which is
something that I tell everybody that
asks me, "Hey, give me you know, some
some some advice on how to implement AI
in a corporation."
Data quality is really the determinant
between good AI and not so good AI.
And so, we did a lot of work to not only
take a bunch of data, but also making it
uh understandable to to the AI. So, for
example, just to go a little bit deeper,
we have a tool called Legend AI, which
is our lakehouse uh which allows you to
go from query to MCP server connected to
GSA Assistant, i.e. from data to
answers. Uh you can wire it up literally
in two or three clicks.
And it does all of that for you. And so
the quality of the data, the quantity of
the data, not only like it's not just
the, you know, the bitter lesson here,
but it's also the lesson of uh
you need to curate your data. You get
better answers disproportionately.
That's something that has driven that.
So, that is kind of the knowledge
uh aspect of AI, which is I would say
the most widespread because every single
one in the firm has that. And it's, you
know, the highest usage. We are like way
above a million prompts per month and
it's growing really, really, really
fast.
Um
And then of course, you know, you're
asking me like real impact in in in
production. Every developer in Goldman
is enabled with agentic AI. Okay? So, we
were probably one of the first, if not
the first, to launch a dev in almost
like a year ago,
uh which is the fully agentic uh
developer assistant.
We have cloud code, we have uh you know,
many other tools, GitHub Copilot agent,
etc. But on that, you really see the
step change. There is no question that
there is changing the way developers
work. And by the way,
it's not just about doing the exact same
things more efficiently.
It's changing the way developers
actually do their work.
And that is very, very easy to see uh
how, you know, that kind of changes the
paradigm of what a developer does.
You're much more of a product manager,
you're much more of a planner, you're
much more of a idea generator. The most
important thing for a developer today is
to be able to explain things
rather than
jumping and coding things.
>> feel that resonates cuz I've been like
vibe coding, but I can't explain how any
of it works. So, if someone is like, I
would know, you know, I like build a
little like toy apps and stuff, but I
get really anxious. I couldn't explain
it. That's why I'm not a software
developer.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, just on this note, I
mean, people tend to talk in
generalities when it comes to AI
boosting productivity or maybe I AI
changes the way we work or it leads to
some new ideas.
From your seat at Goldman, you know,
you're a manager, you're looking at the
bottom line of like all these
businesses. What exactly is the outcome,
the specific outcome that you would like
to see from your developers using
something like Cloud Code?
It's really about increasing the output.
So, I want to see I was actually having
this discussion this morning. I was
looking at some of the reports on some
of the deliverables for our cloud
migration, which is a very important
thing for us.
And I was looking at this really big
project that was saying
it was not only green, it was like two
months ahead of schedule.
And I would say, this is how we know
when things are going to work. You're
going to consistently start seeing
projects that are actually finishing
ahead of schedule.
Which means then that people are
ambitious, they want to do more, and
therefore you end up with output that is
much higher than what you had before.
And listen, with developers, obviously
the biggest question that everybody asks
is, "Okay, what are you going to do? Are
you going to cut developers this and
that?" So,
first of all,
with all the innovation that I've seen
in the last 30 years or so, I kind of
never seen a moment where really people
were reducing the number of developers
because if I look at uh
the things they were not doing in a
certain year because of budget reasons,
because of complexity reason, because of
prioritization, the stuff that is below
the cut of the backlog, it's a lot. And
a lot of that is really driving the
growth of the business. So, it's good to
have the optionality to do it. You know,
you have the optionality of saying, "I
now have 120% of my capacity. I have
130% of my capacity." Do I Do I want to
do 130% more? Great. If I don't, I have
the option to reduce. Uh so, but so
that's really what how we measure it.
It's really the impact on the timelines
of delivery. It's output. It's basically
quality and timeline becoming, you know,
quality gets actually better
and the timelines get short. So, that's
what we measure.
Obviously, one of the big questions for
the market this year is what is the
impact of AI on legacy software
providers? And there's various theories
about how they could be disrupted. And
uh there are reports, I think, about
Anthropic having, quote, "forward
deployed engineers inside Goldman
Sachs." So, Anthropic employees build
out AI systems internally. Maybe that
could, um you know, replace some legacy
software. Right now,
can you say like there is a change in
the balance of power when there is a
given piece of software up for
negotiation?
I think generally there is. Okay. Um
if First of all,
there has kind of always been that
tension because uh imagine, for example,
you know, like imagine when there were
uh
software that didn't run on the cloud
and then all of the sudden a bunch of
new vendors are coming to you and say,
"Hey, wait a second. Why are you running
that on your mainframe or your or or
your your on-prem? Why don't you run it
in the cloud?" Or remember when software
needed to be installed? Then everything
became browser-based and SaaS and so
there has always been a little bit of a
cycle and a renewal. What I say is that
today that cycle of renewal is is is
much faster. That's really what it is.
And and I would say I generally resist
making like really broad
categorizations.
Uh AI is, by the way, the largest
possible. To me, it's like saying
computers, okay? Yeah. But even software
is very broad. And so, within the
software uh category, I think there are
winners or losers. There are winners in
long term and losers in the long term,
but it's really like a
uh people tend to make it a category and
then tend maybe throw the the baby with
the bathwater. Uh so, here's an example.
To me, the question that I ask myself uh
uh with regards to
what is
which vendors am I going to which
software am I going to have like a few
years down the road is
software generally is attached to a
process or a certain ways of working,
okay? It does something for you and the
and it puts it in the form of a of an
application that you use.
The real question is
is that process and or ways of working
going to be the same or is it going to
change in 5 years?
Then you can determine
what is basically the likelihood that
the software is going to be robust to
that or not. Example
is accounting or or closing the books
going to be very different 5 years from
now? I don't think so.
Really. It hasn't really changed. I
mean, everything changes, but it hasn't
really changed much. And so, if you're
operating in the general ledger type of
category, I don't think there is a
you know
a
all of the sudden that you take a you
know, a GPT or a cloud that is going to
close your books magically, you know?
>> need to do the accounting and the You
still need to do a lot of that and it's
very regulated, importantly, right? It's
extremely regulated. You know,
jurisdiction by jurisdiction, country by
country,
you know, product by product, industry
by industry. So, that part is kind of to
me, you know, in in kind of the safe
mode
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> And then you go to the
you know, other end of the spectrum and
you have uh sometimes you know software
that uh
uh
it kind of is aligned to the way people
do things today. Like software being one
of them, you know, like if you look at
the software developer life cycle, a lot
of that is changing. Developers are are
are are are developing software by
developing specs today. And so, if
you're too much in the weeds down there
in that mechanics and you don't adapt
for AIs or agents doing that work, is
a uh development life cycle,
deployments, rollbacks, monitoring,
observability, and all that. I think
that part will be very much disrupted.
Or if you're adding a sort of a UX on
things, that's another class. If you
have a very simple process, I don't
know, you're doing surveys or expense
reports or whatever,
and now people are going to start
expecting, you know, their personal
assistants or agents to kind of do all
that mechanic for them.
And so, I think that part is probably
something that has a bigger question
mark uh on top. And so, I always ask
myself for the process question first,
the process transformation section uh
question first, and then
consequently, what's the tool that is
going to support that. Just to press on
this point, though, have you replaced
any third-party software providers with
something that's been developed
internally through AI? We We have We
have terminated contracts already. Yes,
absolutely. Okay. No, I'm not going to
ask you your follow-up question again
because I'm [laughter] not going to tell
you names.
>> [laughter]
>> But overall, yes, absolutely.
Absolutely. You know, the thing is like
the whole buy versus build, okay? Yeah.
The equation has changed quite a bit.
Because if you know, before,
well, buy versus build was always like,
okay guys, how long does it take to do
the to build this? And you get an answer
which is, well, we can do it in like uh
you know, X amount of years and X amount
of millions of dollars.
Now, I'm starting to see people coming
to me and say, by the way, I had some
time uh you know, this weekend, and here
is a perfectly working application. So,
the cost or at least uh you know, for
simple applications,
the cost of kind of, you know,
build
from a time perspective and from a uh
you know, actual cost perspective has
gone down quite dramatically.
So, right now, you know, like
the little things are most likely going
to be built. The very big large the
software that is to be uh
uh know deployed at scale across
thousands of people and etc. etc. That
big complexity as you know from
you know, we all do toy stuff with our
clock codes at home and whatever.
You know, there's still some rough edges
like you know, and so it's harder to
think that all all of a sudden the big
applications are going to disappear. And
so that's really what what I'm saying
that if I look at the applications that
I buy today, there is a lot of small
applications. You know what I'm saying?
And so the build is kind of the pendulum
is starting to swing back towards the
build at least for that category for
sure.
What is a forward deployed engineer? I
know it's like one of the hot buzzwords
of 2026 and I saw headlines that were
Anthropic forward deployed engineers at
Goldman. I have no idea what that means
actually.
>> Yeah, you know, like
I think what they do when they got
there? Okay, so I think listen, that
name has changed quite a bit.
No, no, no, no, no. I mean, that is the
latest term. So you are fully you are in
the
in the the latest
of that term. But remember, I mean,
there was a time where you used to call
them solution architects, right? And so
So the point is
right now
I think one trend that I see, which is
also kind of true for us, is when things
change so much and so rapidly, you kind
of want to go to the origin of who
produces this new thing, okay? So the
least intermediaries you have and
probably the faster you can go.
And so going and working directly with
the model providers is generally good
idea. Because if you're putting someone
in the middle, this company is going to
have to be trained, it's going to have
to be, you know, if there is a cycle
which uh
at this point of very rapid change is
going to slow you down.
And so
the first thing that that term means is
those are people that are actually
normally building the product. They're
normally building the cloud or GPT or X
or So that's the first differentiation.
They're straight to the source of of of
of of the of the AI production in a way.
And second is that uh
they're generally product people. So,
people that have actually built those
tools. Uh
Uh rather than people that are more like
support and deployment people.
>> Okay. And so, this characterization is
you take the classic uh you know, sales
support team or solutions support team,
which was mostly doing integration.
And when things are so rapid, you know,
uh you know,
it's like, you know, imagine if there is
like something like, I don't know, if if
the clothes style works changes so fast,
instead of a fashion assistant, you want
to talk to the tailor because they can
actually make it. You know, things are
changing so fast. And so, those are the
tailors, basically. So, on this note,
one of the things we heard in support of
SaaS was this idea that, well,
integration is still going to be really
important. And that's really going to be
like the major hurdle for a lot of this
stuff. Have you found that AI is making
integration even faster at this point?
Has that, you know, basically become
irrelevant nowadays?
No, I think integration is uh
is extremely important, especially, you
know, I for uh
um you know, what what the industry
calls like systems of record. So, when
you do something like you know, when you
do a process, then you have a source of
of data. Like, you know, your CRM
systems could be a system of record or
um
you know, you have your client system of
record, your accounting system of
record. And those when they become the
authoritative source of an answer,
they need to integrate with the rest of
the firm. And the rest of the data, the
rest of the applications, and so. I can
see that those vendors that sit on top
of those, you can argue that they will
implement
uh
there's nobody that is better positioned
than them to implement AI that will kind
of reach outwards and actually do that
kind of integration. So, I think those
who will evolve so that you still get
the same level of automatism and you
still get the same the same benefit of
speed but it kind of comes from within.
I think that part is probably something
that that would be remain very valuable.
And so in general I don't have anything
against the again I don't have anything
against the SAS category at all but I
overall but I have you know as I said
different opinions of who actually is
going to adopt to the future and adapt
to the future and those will not. You
know you mentioned this idea of people
have a few extra hours over the weekend
and they come in in the morning and
they're like well you know I had some
extra time and I decided to to do this.
What's the coolest or most novel example
of something that people basically vibe
coded in a limited amount of time that
wouldn't have happened say two years
ago?
Um
so um
I've seen people doing
uh like cloud migrations of
legacy applications that were on premise
you know once they have been enabled
with with with those tools so literally
a matter of hours.
I've seen someone
build a a complete like
travel assistant for corporate travel
assistant that
that looks at your calendar and looks at
the flight delays and look at the
rebooking stuff literally like in a in a
during a meeting where they were not
paying attention. So
>> [laughter]
>> So those are some of the things That's
what I'm doing right now while we're
doing this podcast I'm black Well
they're actually um
that brings me to exactly where I wanted
to go next which is I'm curious like do
a large corporations have a token budget
the way they would have a dollar budget
in the past. So like I would love to
have unlimited access to coding models
and whatever and actually just play
around and try to work on all that
stuff.
>> of my favorite questions thanks for
asking.
>> like how you think about token
allocation within the firm and whether
there's intra-firm competition for
compute for compute.
>> Yeah, it token allocation could be like
included in your performance review,
right?
>> different teams and stuff like that.
Whether that's part of what you think
about for planning.
Absolutely. So,
uh you know, a few months ago I did uh
and I could
I spoke about predictions for 26 and one
thing that I said was, you know, there's
going to be the birth of the personal
assistant and that kind of happened uh
with open claw and all that stuff kind
of early on. And then the one was
there's going to be a token sticker
shock for CFOs, right? That all of the
sudden they're going to start seeing
bills that they absolutely did not
expect.
>> Jensen Huang said in an interview today
or sorry, not today, in recent weeks
something about like oh if I'm paying an
engineer $500,000,
I hope that he's spending at least
$250,000 on tokens. Now again, as many
people pointed out, that's like the
barber saying oh you really need to get
haircuts every week. Nonetheless, the
we're talking about some pretty big
numbers, a lot more than just like a
Claude Max plan for $200.
>> let's talk about that.
>> Right now, okay. So, first of all,
lesson number one is uh
you need to centralize
the access to models
>> Okay. so that you can monitor, meter it,
and then optimize it, okay? So, the wild
west of everybody goes and calls an API
and starts consuming tokens uh and then
you find out later on is a big problem.
And so, that's why we built uh
with this GSAI platform, which has you
know, what's called a model gateway.
And the model gateway intelligently
routes requests to you know, the
combination the Pareto frontier of
quality and
and and cost, okay? So, you got to
centralize that.
Um
it's not a one-size-fits-all because
many cases if you're asking, you know,
what's the weather, you don't need to
call Claude Opus 4.6.
You can ask it to believe in a local
model that you run very cheaply on
premise. So,
there is there are ways to optimize
way before you start even having the
conversation you're consuming too much
too too many tokens. So, just this is
very interesting to me. Is a big part of
the problem that you're trying to solve
as and we know like, you know, ChatGPT
they intelligently route, you know, they
do some on their you go to
chat.openai.com and they'll try to route
it to the best model and there might
even be some conflict of interest cuz
they probably want to
route it to the cheapest model. The user
wants the most performant model, but how
much of the work of your senior
engineers is essentially solving this
problem of the right query going to the
Pareto optimal model? It is a big a a
big part of the time of the spent by the
AI central group, the platform group.
The platform group worries a lot about
where do I where do I get the right
data, for example, for this question and
which model do I write route it to?
That's a big you know, because again, I
I spoke about Pareto frontier meaning
the optimization between quality, which
we don't want to compromise, and and the
actual cost.
>> Yeah. And you can be iso quality at very
different
you know, price points because not not
all questions are required the most
expensive token. So, that's point number
one. So,
what I'm trying to say is my philosophy
is to try
to isolate
the developer or the user from the
token anxiety. It's a little bit like
with electric cars, okay? At one point,
if you have 18 miles of range, you're
always optimizing routes and maybe I'm
not going to go there. I don't need this
ice cream today. I'll
I'll have it later. You're self-limiting
in ways that are kind of, you know,
unuse really no useful optimal micro
optimizations. We don't want people to
go there yet at least. Uh right now it's
a time where people need to really find
the the best way to kind of you know, do
more and do better the best possible
work with AI. And let us, meaning
internally in the sort of a central
team, optimize it in a way that uh you
know, we're going to make it economical.
And I think it
reducing the token anxiety is a big
challenge, but I think it really frees
up you know, creativity and and and what
you can do with AI.
Um
it's also like uh uh
a little bit like uh uh
you know, there are certain problems
that you don't want to optimize too
early. Okay.
>> Okay? So, for example,
uh
yeah, how much time do you want to
optimize now for uh remember we used to
kind of optimize the weight of web pages
because they were too slow to load. And
then at one point the editors or
whatever say, "Why can't I put yet
another image?" And then people are
starting to say, "Okay, why don't you do
it? And then on the back end I'm going
to work in optimizing your images rather
than asking you at the most you can put
three images on the on the homepage,
right?" So, that's the approach. I want
people right now I would rather
uh have them
err on the side of usage and let me
worry about optimization. And the other
point is
really at the end
human hours always tend to be the most
expensive cost. Okay?
And so, as long as your token cost
is
your token cost per hour is less than
your wage per hour,
>> [laughter]
>> then it's a kind of a positive ROI. And
so, at that point it's fine. Well, just
on this note, what's your what's your
feeling about future costs of tokens and
whether they're going up or down?
Because you hear different things on
this. One of the things you hear is that
again, going back to the beginning of
this conversation, AI has improved so
quickly in the course of you know,
months if not weeks, that those costs
are destined to come down. But, on the
other hand, we know that the
hyperscalers are still losing money hand
over fist for, you know, power users
such as yourself at Goldman. So, where
do you think those are going over time?
I My My personal view is, uh,
token cost is going to go down quite a
bit, but token numbers are going to go
up, probably even more. And so, total
token cost is going to actually We're
going to have to accept there's going to
be a major item of cost in any
organization. And it's to be compared to
the cost of people and not to be
compared to the cost of, you know, IT or
TCP/IP packets or computer or any of
that.
If you look at just the number of tokens
being used, for the same use case, if
you go the reasoning route or you go and
don't go the reasoning route. If you go
the agentic route or not the agentic
route. If you go the open claw route,
where, you know, it checks every every
you know, starts having these tasks that
are firing one after the other and then
you have to start to have verify etc.
etc. So, I think the trend will continue
with regards to more and more of those,
but the cost the the the per unit cost
of token, I
I'm pretty sure that is going to go
down. Also, because, as you know,
GPUs are becoming more powerful. They
you know, the cost per watt, hopefully,
is going to go down. And then also,
like,
uh, uh,
to be fair, I mean, you know,
these hyperscalers are doing a lot of
optimizations to try to run those stacks
on their own hardware, right? Which will
potentially kind of also generate some
economies of scale. Can Goldman
employees, like, run open claw on their
work computers? And I'm curious like
about the degree to which you have
people who like want to I want to
install this or this seems really cool
and then think about the security
imperative and how you handle that
aspect. Not the token anxiety, but the
sort of I want to install this. This is
awesome. This is not allowed in my home.
>> we're we're as you know, like as a bank,
we're pretty locked down in terms of
what you can install. You cannot install
stuff that is not in the you know, in
the corporate in in the corporate app
store in a way. And so there's no way.
Um Would you feel like a certain
>> no way though cuz can't you just ask
Claude how to install itself on your
computer?
>> going to be able to execute. It's not
going to be able to create the actual
executable. It can actually even GSA
assistant today can spit out a lot of
code, but it spits out source code.
Okay.
>> Now what source code doesn't run.
Executable. So it needs to be built and
it needs to be turned into an
executable. It needs to be signed,
otherwise the operating system is going
to refuse to run it and so it just
doesn't run unless you have that.
>> But do you feel an anxiety where, you
know, startups they're probably and you
know, there's not a ton of startup
investment banks, but there are various
fintechs and other things that on triple
A parts of your business
and they can run perhaps faster and they
could be a little bit more liberal about
what their employees are allowed to do
etc. Do you feel like you have to keep a
certain cadence of expanding the list of
those executables that are
able to be run?
So uh
I think so I'll give you two answers. So
first of all, I want to make sure that I
answer your first question which is uh
we're not using Open Claude. Okay. Okay?
But
some of the properties of Open Claude
has actually have informed the way we
are building our agentic platform. Okay.
Agents today because of Open Claude
have actually changed. There are three
very important
new If you if you break down what Open
Claude is, there are this is my own
interpretation. I never I actually never
even spoke about this.
There are three
characteristics that make Open Claw what
it is.
One is
it's a constant loop.
So, it's basically what you know in in
information theory you can call an
observer pattern. It's something that
continues to
run and observe. So, there is that. It's
a constant observe. So, it runs
constantly.
The other one is
it can schedule events. Every 7:00 a.m.
do this or I you know, like in personal
life we all have some something like
that that sends me the news in the
morning and all that. So, there is a
schedulability of tasks.
The third one is
you can instruct it to kind of change
its own behavior.
Because it has these files, .md files,
soul.md the way you So, you can say
things like, "Hey, I would like you to
never use this term or please change
that or change the way you filter news
because I you know, so it kind of writes
its own software
to do things for you without you even
you know, seeing what's behind the
scenes.
And so,
instead of uh letting people install
Open Claw on their computers, what we do
is we incorporate some of those
characteristics into our agentic
platform so that it does things that are
more similar to Open Claw. That makes a
lot of sense, yeah.
Um
your kind of made the your second
question was interesting because
basically if I read behind the
questions, are you asking whether there
is a sort of a velocity disadvantage
with regards to you know, us versus
others, okay?
And I think uh
uh you know, I I I often say you know,
that there is a difference between speed
and velocity.
Speed is almost like uh you have a
certain sprint, okay? But then at some
point you're going to hit the wall. A
security wall, a scalability wall,
there's going to be a bug, you don't
know what you're doing and it's going to
first sooner or later you're going to be
hit by that.
It would be like uh, you know,
most airplanes are in auto I have
autopilot that can do everything. So,
theoretically you and I could go on the
cockpit and for a long time during the
flight we would feel pretty good about
that, right? We would drink uh, you
know, some some soft drinks or your tea.
We would maybe watch some videos. We
would be very happy.
>> That's right. Sounds great. The
passengers are like
>> one point in time in the flight there's
going to be some storm and there's going
to be an autopilot disconnect. And you
and I are going to look at each other
and going to say, "Uh-oh, right?
>> [laughter]
>> Where's the pilot?" Can I just say
recently I was on a flight I'll tell you
this and I was going to Newark. We
circled three times. We tried to land it
was during a storm and they kept not
landing. Everyone like started to get
pretty annoyed cuz we were up there for
a while. And then the flight attendant
comes on and says, "Unprompted, by the
way, we have plenty of gas." And
everyone started
>> [laughter]
>> to go no one was like this is a question
this is an answer that no one had been
question.
>> Nobody needed it. Anyway, I'm sorry I
just wanted to get that out of the way.
And then I then everyone got really
nervous. Okay. By the way, we have
plenty of gas. But you know what? I I
was almost fearing that you would say is
there a pilot on board?
>> [laughter]
>> And then we did land in Washington D.C.
Okay. Oh, you did?
>> Yeah, from Newark. Oh, no. That's not
good. But that makes sense, yeah. Yeah,
and so and so that's what I mean by
velocity is really like is like the
marathon. Is you know, sustained speed
for a long time in a certain direction.
I don't think by randomizing that you
actually gain velocity. You you gain
instant speed of some sort. And so I'm
kind of optimizing for velocity.
But related to Joe's point though, you
are a regulated bank, right? And so
there are restrictions on what you can
do in terms of technology. I am very
very curious what your discussions with
regulators are right now because
a lot of regulators this is still pretty
new to them. A lot of the models
basically are black boxes. How do you
convince them that like they're running
as they should, that they're spitting
out the correct output, that you
understand how they're actually
functioning. So, this is not the first
time that banks use neural networks,
okay? These are just much larger neural
networks, but we've been using neural
networks for like a decade plus.
And so, every bank has already gone
through
the motions of explaining that neural
networks don't have perfect
explicability. Therefore, you need to
change the control system around them.
You need to look at what actions can
they actually do, and then you limit the
actions, okay? And then you you there is
functions called the like a model risk
management, which is a very standardized
uh, you know, function within every
bank. Therefore, each of those neural
networks you need to have an inventory,
you need to have a a risk tiering, and
you need to put controls around them.
So, it is uh, not really that much of a
new thing. It's more of an evolution
where now you have things that are much
faster and much more powerful. But, the
basic pattern and the basic discussion
with the regulators is kind of the same,
which is
are you classifying the risk tiering of
the application, right? And then which
controls are you putting, and are you
putting human supervision and human in
the loop? So, for example, for code,
we don't allow AIs to auto approve their
own code, okay?
They All they can do is publish what's
called a pull request or a merge
request.
The same way as uh, a developer would.
And we kind of have a sort of zero trust
model there, because we don't assume
that uh, maybe a junior developer is
going to be less more bug free than than
an AI, right? And so, we have
several controls in place. For example,
there isn't to be There needs to be a
human small senior than you that
actually looks at the code and then
certifies and approves. And then we
after that, before it goes to the
production, it goes in something that is
called CICD or you know,
continuous integration, continuous
deployment pipeline, where when it goes
through the build phase, etc.
There is a lot of checks that are
injected into that. There are security
checks, there are tech risk checks. So,
I don't think at the end of the day you
really lose too much velocity or at all.
You just need to invest more in those
kind of things. And that's really what
And the regulators, I think if you bring
them back into sort of a familiar
territory, and you're also honest on
things that you know and things that you
don't know. And for the things that you
don't know, you kind of put higher
protections. I think the conversation is
generally very positive.
You know, we were having an episode that
we recorded several weeks ago that we
still haven't released. And I don't know
exactly the timing of that one or this
one. We interviewed
Scott Bock, the former CEO of Greenhill,
the boutique investment bank. And part
of the reason we had that conversation
was because we want to know like if AI
is going to someday disrupt banking as
we know it, like what was banking as we
know it? So, we talked about the history
of investment banking. But one of the
things that he talked about was that
a big advantage that the banks had was
this sort of information asymmetry. And
that they would know a lot more about
their industries and so forth than their
clients. And this was profitable. Now,
going back to your answer, the very
first question, you're like, "Okay, a
client might call Goldman." And they
say, "What is the straight of Formosa
closure mean for this portfolio shock,
etc."
>> going to ask this exact question. Yeah.
I kind of think I could do that. I think
I could you I mean, no offense, I'm sure
your platform is a little bit better
than what it Like, but I think I could
like get 90% of the way there. And I bet
I could like with a little bit of data
build a basket that says I want
you know, helium shortage basket. Which
country Which companies would I short if
I think the helium shortage is going to
get worse? I could probably build a
basket the way a trading desk would.
Do you think long term like that AI
erodes a certain structural source of
profitability for banks? Are you worried
about that?
>> think you can get to the 90%, but I
think clients are really paying us for
that extra 10%.
>> Okay.
So, I think that's the answer.
Wait, so what is the extra 10% in that
context? Is it the models are slightly
better or is it also the data?
>> We have access to you know, we buy a lot
of data that you know, is very expensive
and it's at massive quantities and it's
very up-to-date and very real-time. So,
we have a little bit of a data
advantage.
We operate across multiple asset
classes. So, we see the trading side, we
see the asset management side. So, we
have a sort of a correlation between
assets advantage that we see those
because generally rates move
you know, interest rates can move yields
can move you know, there is a
correlation between all those
indicators. So, there is another
advantage. We have a global advantage.
We have people on the ground in you
know, 100 plus countries and these
people have relationship and information
travels to through those channels.
Uh
And also you know, like we generally
deal with very complex portfolios. So,
this is not you and I maybe having three
stocks or four or five. This is like
very complex multi-assets uh
with complex products like swaps or swap
options or exotic products etc. etc. And
so, that's really the 10% that you know,
the clients that we have you know,
really value and where we really need to
get is like at the end of the day
listen.
If you look at look at Formula 1, okay?
The difference per time per per per per
lap between you know, the
Mercedes and
take you know, your favorite last team
you know, it's sometimes 1 second out
out to me out of 2 minutes.
And that is the difference between you
know, getting a a hundred million
dollars a year sponsorship or or or or a
ten thousand dollar sponsorship. So, for
for sophisticated clients
that 10% is really where the money is.
And that's really what people are paying
us for.
So, actually, you mentioned all the
different businesses at Goldman, and
there are a bunch of them like asset
management, there's banking, there's
trading.
A lot of those businesses aren't
supposed to talk to each other in
various ways. And so, when it comes to
the data,
is there like a data leakage issue where
you might have a model that's, you know,
in-house like GSAI that's pulling data
from different sides of the company in
ways that, you know,
maybe it shouldn't be, maybe it's really
hard to tell given the complexity of the
model. Is that something you have to pay
attention to? Absolutely. So, we have
the concept of info barriers, okay? And
the info barriers are a uh uh
are enforced uh
throughout the entire system, okay?
And uh
they're linked uh
to your ID or your account, okay? So, if
I'm on the private side,
I can only see certain information. If I
am on a public side, I can only see
certain information. And I cannot even
know about the information on the other
side. I can't I don't have it access to
the files, to the seed, to the folders,
nothing.
Each AI or each agent or each
application, that's the beauty of this
centralized platform, needs to get an ID
or a badge.
And that badge is attached to the exact
same info barriers as any applications
or any computers. And so, these are
enforced basically at the source. So,
even if it is the same
type of model, but that particular use
of the model, that particular session of
the model, that needs to get a ticket or
a badge. And that badge or those keys
just take them to certain place. And so,
this is one of these been,
you know, it took us almost 2 years to
build the a GSAI platform. These are
this back to the reason why you can't be
casual about these things. This thing is
not being built by some random vibe
coders, because you need to worry about
cyber, you need to worry about info
barriers, you need to worry about all
that. And so, when I talk about, you
know, there are places where you can
leverage and do correlations, but there
are others where you absolutely can't.
And this is kind of that is foundational
to the fact that, you know, you need to
have you need to be ready for AI. You
can't be casual about AI. So, I take
your point that there's never been a
technology that you've seen in your
career that has actually reduced the
need for software engineers. And that
the nature of the job of software
engineers has changed and maybe gets
more high-level and whatever. Setting
aside the pure head level of head count
question, is AI changing right now
across anything, software, technology,
or otherwise, the types of person you're
looking for or changing something about
the nature of the type of talent you're
pursuing? Yeah, absolutely. Great
question. So, um
I think uh
in this day and age, uh almost nobody
is an individual contributor, really.
Because when you're working with agents,
you need to have uh
at least three fundamental
characteristics. One is you need to be
able to explain what you want to get
done. Okay?
The second one is uh you need to be able
to delegate work. Guess what? Because
you're going to have multiple agents.
One is specialized, for example, in
doing, I don't know, DCF calculations
and one is specialized in doing
research. So, you need to be able to
break down the work into chunks that can
be
executed in parallel in some way. And
then three, you need to have the ability
to supervise. You need to actually look
at the output and say, "Okay, I'm good
with this." or go back.
It turns out that those three things,
i.e.
uh explain, delegate, and supervise, are
kind of the one-on-one of managers.
Managers need to have those three,
otherwise they can't manage a team.
And so, AI is kind of turning everybody
a little bit into a manager.
And uh those are kind of the skills that
we are actually looking for, for people
that uh they know that they're going to
have agency on
tools that at some point are going to be
even more proficient and specific
specialized than they are. And so the
most important thing is really the
ability to ideate, [snorts]
to explain,
to delegate, and then to really know
what good looks like. And I think that
is a big change. And and I don't think
everybody's going to actually rapidly go
through that. And I think we're doing a
combination of uh
uh training that is a combination of
exposing them to, you know, other
people. Like one of the advantages of
having forward deployment engineers is
also that there is a little bit of clash
of culture that is happening around the
table. And so people think really,
really differently. And that pushes
people outside their comfort zone.
That's why I'm saying that uh
uh you know, there is a little bit of a
metamorphosis happening there. It's not
just about efficiency. It's really
thinking about is my job going to stay
the same? No, it's actually changing
quite a bit. So. I'm thinking how to
frame this question, but
what's work-life balance like now for a
developer at Goldman? Because you have
this existen- existential angst about
jobs potentially changing. Um at the
same time, you have AI tools that enable
more productivity. And you also have
this thing happening where I feel like
Joe, maybe you know more about this than
I do, but I feel like a lot of vibe
coders like like it's addictive. Yeah.
It's like you're you're pressing the
button
of a slot machine, uh you're interacting
with Claude, and you're seeing what it
spits back out over and over and over
again until you get that big win.
And so I've heard people talk about
burnout among developers who are just
doing so much with this right now that
they're just hitting that button over
and over and over.
>> good discussion in the Odd Lots Discord
recently about exactly this. Some
engineers in semiconductors feel like
that the job has become less satisfying
because it's just all and I think it's
sort of what you're getting at, the sort
of slot machine feeling where it's like,
"Oh, you're going to like hit the
prompt. Okay, this is the great output."
And then it's like they feel the work is
like less satisfying and stuff like that
than actually like writing code. So,
Yeah, I mean, listen, again, this is
where kind of the fact that I'm a little
bit older than most of the here
engineers. I kind of I've seen that to
the first time people had the Excel. I
have to say for the you know, the first
time people had the uh Python.
Oh my god, I don't need to know Java.
And then the kids start to code and
there is this whole coding movement. And
then you get to you start uh you're
creating your applications. I've seen
the first time people have mobile stuff
and you know, mobile apps. And so, I
think a little bit of that is because
it's new to be perfectly honest, you
know? And I think yes, there is a little
bit of that, but there is a little a lot
of novelty to that. And then I've seen
that people have been using those tools
uh for a couple of years, they're taking
them a little bit more like, "Okay, it's
professional this tool and I'm going to
use it for what I actually need rather
than just trying to discover." One thing
that I've seen is that because maybe of
that, but also because of what you can
get that there is a sort of a in a way
uh
reward cycle that is pretty quick.
>> Yeah.
People are very excited, actually.
There's There's some sort of a joy of
the profession that is actually coming
out as if engineers feel were feeling
like this job is new again because a lot
of engineers have seen the same pattern
sometimes for for two decades. Yeah. So,
that has been
something that I observed. There is also
a lot of peer pressure. There is a lot
of fear of missing out. And so, people
are rather than you know, it's no longer
like
me trying to push the car uphill. It's
more people are actually looking at
their peers and they're looking at, "Oh
my god, how could you do that?" And so,
it's kind of spreading horizontally
quite a bit, which is which is really
nice to uh to see. And so, so far I have
to say that uh
it's been positive a change. And also
one other thing that uh you know, you're
talking about burnout.
I see that a lot of people get fatigue.
I don't want to want to talk about
burnout, but they get fatigue when uh
you know, there are a lot of repetitive
tasks, especially for a developer.
Here's an example.
Let's say you go from uh
you know, a version of uh a Java library
or Spring Boot to another version. And
then all of the sudden you compile and
you get or you build and you get all
these uh errors that say you need to
upgrade.
Honestly, upgrading libraries is not the
most fun job. And if you need to do it a
hundred times or is like someone says,
"By the way, guys, we have this new
design uh uh
uh design new logo, new colors.
Implement it on like 200 websites." It
might be fun the first 10 and then it
becomes a drag.
And so,
I think taking that away kind of
>> Mhm.
it it and making them they focus more
and more on the plan, for example. And
so, right now, let's do a migration plan
to the cloud of a complex application.
They spend maybe 70% of their time going
back and forth with a very powerful set
of AIs to really get the plan right.
They feel a little bit more elevated
and the mechanical part
it's kind of, you know, left to to to to
the machine. The same way, I mean,
listen, I started developing when I was
literally flipping switches, okay? And
then pressing a button that we should
move the register up one.
And then came uh you know, some
languages
uh they were like C. Oh my god, now I
don't have to flip switches anymore, but
then guess what? I need to do memory
management, I need to do pointers. I
mean, there's a lot of heavy lifting.
Oh, I have a memory leak. I'm going to
spend a week before I actually finally
identify that. And then, you know, it
comes Java. Oh,
garbage collection. I don't have to
worry about memory leaks anymore.
Fantastic. And then comes Python, which
is all all that rigidity or so much
easier to you know be type free and so
forth. And so every time you kind of
keep raising the bar and a lot of the
kind of mechanics kind of goes away. I
think
this is be like a 10 years jump in you
know in in a matter of two years.
But I think overall nobody really likes
to do to have that toil and that
mechanical work. And I'm actually quite
happy that people are going to spend
maybe initially more time because
they're excited but on things that
they're enjoying rather than things that
this is they dread.
All right. Well, Marco, we'll have to
have you back on the podcast in another
year and a half I guess and discuss
Yeah, three months. [laughter] That's
right.
on the reduced AI timeline. Thank you so
much for for coming back on the pod.
Thank you both of you. Thank you. Thanks
for having me. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. Thank you. So Joe, that was great
to catch up. One thing I thought was
really interesting was his point about
the discussions with the regulators and
framing it like very similar to previous
technological advances where you're not
necessarily explaining exactly how the
models are coming to certain
conclusions.
>> Yeah. But you're more focused on
actually limiting the risks and making
sure that they're in the right bucket
for risk assessment. No, I thought that
was really interesting just that some of
these technologies the you know the
black box. Yeah. The chat G LLMs are not
the first black box. I mean we've
actually been talking about black box
trading for years in finance before. So
the idea of like okay, there are these
things that are happening. We can't
articulate them and whatever. Like it's
not the first rodeo for finance is
really interesting. I'm also you know, I
thought the whole conversation about
token budgets and allocations are
interesting. The idea of like okay, part
of the job here is you have a bunch of
different models. Everyone in theory
wants the most performant model but how
do you find that optimization where you
get the best performance relative to
price? It sounds like a pretty
interesting like engineering problem.
>> Yeah, I would actually love to do more
on that question because it's such an
interesting [clears throat]
a question of incentives, right? And
Totally.
And how do you know like what
constitutes a good output and how do
when do you sacrifice a little bit of
quality for like 10x less token budget
or whatever? Like these are these would
be it would be very interesting to talk
about how that problem specifically gets
solved inside of an organization.
>> economics or efficiency optimization.
Yeah. Well, we'll have Marco back on
very soon to talk about all the new
things that AI is doing. But for now,
shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there. This has been
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen at Kale
Brooks. And for more Odd Lots content,
you should check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
And you can chat about all these topics
24/7 in our Discord discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or better yet,
subscribe. Thanks for watching.
>> [music]
[music]